README.md, before:

# Acceleration Program for Plasm Network and Shiden Network

insert community designed banner image of the program

## Introduction

Our Acceleration Program was created to help further the development, growth and adoption of Plasm Network and Shiden Network by supporting teams who are building on our ecosystem. The program is operated by Stake Technologies with guidance from Parity Technologies under the [Builders for Builders initiative](https://www.parity.io/substrate-builders-program-update-builders-for-builders/).

## Who and what are we looking for?

Unlike other acceleration programs, our program is **idea agnostic**. Our focus has always been on the community and product development and we have designed the program as such - we are interested in **high quality teams** that are building **applications that the community wants**.

This can be broadly split into 2 different tracks, the ecosystem track and the innovation track.

### Ecosystem Track

As the name suggests, the ecosystem track is an umbrella term to categorise any applications or services that can help improve the adoption of the ecosystem. Some common examples include:

- dApps (dexes, lending platforms, mixers, insurance)
- developer tools (libraries, pallets, debugging tools)
- infrastructure (custodians, bridges, oracles, analytics)
- integration grants (port over and maintain dapps from other blockchains)

### Innovation Track

The innovation track is focused primarily on research and theory. Some examples of what falls under the innovation track could be code obfuscation, cryptography, reputation systems or even unique dapp ideas.

## Why should I apply for your Acceleration Program?

We understand that any talented teams will have no problems applying to other acceleration programs so aside from your typical financial support, we will also provide the following:

### Technical support

- During the onboarding phase, one of our core devs will walk your team through on how to develop and maintain applications / infrastructures on Plasm / Shiden Network.
- We will set up an exclusive discord group between your team and our core devs for you to ask any questions.
- If you are still unable to resolve these issues, we can arrange for ad-hoc meetings with the core team to solve these technical problems.
- We can also provide preliminary code reviews prior to your submission for the milestone.

### Network and Fundraising support

- We have access to a huge network of traditional / crypto investors, industry experts, blockchain mentors, exchanges, marketmakers etc. all of which we can link you up with to elevate your project to the next level.
- A very unique feature of the Plasm / Shiden Network is [DApps staking](https://docs.plasmnet.io/build/dapps-reward) where developers can earn SDN tokens by developing and deploying applications on Plasm / Shiden. These tokens can provide additional supplementary income for your team.

### Marketing support

- We can help to promote your project on our various social media platforms like Twitter, Telegram etc.
- You will also be invited to our community meetups and conferences as a guest speaker to share more about your project and to grow your community.
- We are a big fan of cross collaboration between projects in the ecosystem and will help to link your team with other projects in the acceleration program to create something amazing.

### Post graduation support

- It's hard to get into our Acceleration Program, even harder to graduate from it so if you made it through the entire process, congratulations! As a final gift from us, should you ever need help for your future projects, feel free to reach out to us and we will try our best to help you.

## Why build on Plasm Network & Shiden Network?

Aside from the Acceleration Program, there are 4 more compelling reasons why you would build here instead of other smart contract enabled parachains.

1. X-VM (cross virtual machine) interoperability

It doesn't matter where your contracts are deployed, be it the EVM, the OVM or even WASM, as long as it's on Plasm / Shiden network, all contracts can interact with each other!

2. Full Ethereum compatibility

We support all major Ethereum development tools like metamask, remix, truffle, hardhat etc. Deploying contracts on Plasm / Shiden is as simple as changing the rpc url!

3. Dapps staking

As mentioneded [previously](#network-and-fundraising-support), dapps staking is a unique feature of Plasm / Shiden Network. There are no other parachains where you can get paid for deploying contracts onto the blockchain!

4. Scalable from the get-go

If your application requires a much higher throughput, you can easily take advantage of one of the natively supported layer 2 modules like Plasma, OVM or ZK rollups!

## How to apply?

- On our [forum](https://forum.plasmnet.io/c/acceleration-program/14), create a thread titled "name of your project's application proposal"
- We recommend taking reference to [W3F's general grant proposal template](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program/blob/master/grants/grant_application_template.md) when making your application post. If you have any privacy concerns, please reach out to us directly instead.

## FAQs

### What is Builders for Builders program?

> Builders for Builders is a new initiative that aims to empower teams building Substrate-based parachains to develop and grow their own ecosystem of builders developing on top of their parachain. As part of the Builders for Builders initiative, the Substrate Builders Program team will share best practices gained from running the SBP for over a year now to help parachain teams build their own similar programs for teams building solutions on top of their parachain. These programs, called Parachain Builders Programs (PBP) will allow parachain teams to become mentors to others and develop their own thriving community of builders, enriching the Polkadot ecosystem as a whole.

Learn more from [here](https://www.parity.io/substrate-builders-program-update-builders-for-builders/)

### Who can apply?

Anyone! It doesn't matter if you want to work on it yourself or if you have a team, as long as you believe you have what it takes, go ahead and apply!

### What makes a good application?

- A well thought out proposal.
- A competent team with a track record of delivering.
- The project is something that the community wants.
- The team has the community's best interest at heart.

### What is the application process like?

1. [Apply from here](#how-to-apply)
2. Assessment (An interview will be scheduled between the acceleration team and yours to get to know your team a little better.)
3. Evaluate (We will evaluate your application by taking into consideration your proposal, the assessment interview and the community's sentiment.)
4. Feedback and decision (When the review process is completed, we will relay our feedback and decision to your team.)
5. Onboarding to the program for successful applicants.

### Are there an application fees?

No.

### How long will it take before I hear back from you?

You should hear back from us within a few days of making a PR.

### When will the Shiden Acceleration Program begin?

After successfully winning the Kusama Parachain Auction.

Commit message:

Added more details for the application process

README.md, after:

# Acceleration Program for Plasm Network and Shiden Network

insert community designed banner image of the program

## Introduction

Our Acceleration Program was created to help further the development, growth and adoption of Plasm Network and Shiden Network by supporting teams who are building on our ecosystem. The program is operated by Stake Technologies with guidance from Parity Technologies under the [Builders for Builders initiative](https://www.parity.io/substrate-builders-program-update-builders-for-builders/).

## Who and what are we looking for?

Unlike other acceleration programs, our program is **idea agnostic**. Our focus has always been on the community and product development and we have designed the program as such - we are interested in **high quality teams** that are building **applications that the community wants**.

This can be broadly split into 2 different tracks, the ecosystem track and the innovation track.

### Ecosystem Track

As the name suggests, the ecosystem track is an umbrella term to categorise any applications or services that can help improve the adoption of the ecosystem. Some common examples include:

- dApps (dexes, lending platforms, mixers, insurance)
- developer tools (libraries, pallets, debugging tools)
- infrastructure (custodians, bridges, oracles, analytics)
- integration grants (port over and maintain dapps from other blockchains)

### Innovation Track

The innovation track is focused primarily on research and theory. Some examples of what falls under the innovation track could be code obfuscation, cryptography, reputation systems or even unique dapp ideas.

## Why should I apply for your Acceleration Program?

We understand that any talented teams will have no problems applying to other acceleration programs so aside from your typical financial support, we will also provide the following:

### Technical support

- During the onboarding phase, one of our core devs will walk your team through on how to develop and maintain applications / infrastructures on Plasm / Shiden Network.
- We will set up an exclusive discord group between your team and our core devs for you to ask any questions.
- If you are still unable to resolve these issues, we can arrange for ad-hoc meetings with the core team to solve these technical problems.
- We can also provide preliminary code reviews prior to your submission for the milestone.

### Network and Fundraising support

- We have access to a huge network of traditional / crypto investors, industry experts, blockchain mentors, exchanges, marketmakers etc. all of which we can link you up with to elevate your project to the next level.
- A very unique feature of the Plasm / Shiden Network is [DApps staking](https://docs.plasmnet.io/build/dapps-reward) where developers can earn SDN tokens by developing and deploying applications on Plasm / Shiden. These tokens can provide additional supplementary income for your team.

### Marketing support

- We can help to promote your project on our various social media platforms like Twitter, Telegram etc.
- You will also be invited to our community meetups and conferences as a guest speaker to share more about your project and to grow your community.
- We are a big fan of cross collaboration between projects in the ecosystem and will help to link your team with other projects in the acceleration program to create something amazing.

### Post graduation support

- It's hard to get into our Acceleration Program, even harder to graduate from it so if you made it through the entire process, congratulations! As a final gift from us, should you ever need help for your future projects, feel free to reach out to us and we will try our best to help you.

## Why build on Plasm Network & Shiden Network?

Aside from the Acceleration Program, there are 4 more compelling reasons why you would build here instead of other smart contract enabled parachains.

1. X-VM (cross virtual machine) interoperability

It doesn't matter where your contracts are deployed, be it the EVM, the OVM or even WASM, as long as it's on Plasm / Shiden network, all contracts can interact with each other!

2. Full Ethereum compatibility

We support all major Ethereum development tools like metamask, remix, truffle, hardhat etc. Deploying contracts on Plasm / Shiden is as simple as changing the rpc url!

3. Dapps staking

As mentioneded [previously](#network-and-fundraising-support), dapps staking is a unique feature of Plasm / Shiden Network. There are no other parachains where you can get paid for deploying contracts onto the blockchain!

4. Scalable from the get-go

If your application requires a much higher throughput, you can easily take advantage of one of the natively supported layer 2 modules like Plasma, OVM or ZK rollups!

## How to apply?

- On our [forum](https://forum.plasmnet.io/c/acceleration-program/14), create a thread titled "name of your project's application proposal"
- We recommend taking reference to [W3F's general grant proposal template](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program/blob/master/grants/grant_application_template.md) when making your application post. If you have any privacy concerns, please reach out to us directly instead.

## FAQs

### What is Builders for Builders program?

> Builders for Builders is a new initiative that aims to empower teams building Substrate-based parachains to develop and grow their own ecosystem of builders developing on top of their parachain. As part of the Builders for Builders initiative, the Substrate Builders Program team will share best practices gained from running the SBP for over a year now to help parachain teams build their own similar programs for teams building solutions on top of their parachain. These programs, called Parachain Builders Programs (PBP) will allow parachain teams to become mentors to others and develop their own thriving community of builders, enriching the Polkadot ecosystem as a whole.

Learn more from [here](https://www.parity.io/substrate-builders-program-update-builders-for-builders/)

### Who can apply?

Anyone! It doesn't matter if you want to work on it yourself or if you have a team, as long as you believe you have what it takes, go ahead and apply!

### What makes a good application?

- A well thought out proposal.
- A competent team with a track record of delivering.
- The project is something that the community wants.
- The team has the community's best interest at heart.

### What is the application process like?

#### 1. Apply from here

[here](#how-to-apply)

#### 2. Assessment

An informal call will be scheduled between your team and the Acceleration Program committee. The purpose of this call is to get to know your team better, your motivations etc.

#### 3. Evaluation

The Acceleration Program committee will evaluate your application based on the following factors:

- your proposal
- your informal chat with us
- your interactions with the commmunity
- the community's sentiments towards your team and idea.

#### 4. Feedback and Decision

Once the Acceleration Program committee reaches a majority agreement, we will relay our feedback and decision to your team via the forum. Note that our decisions are not set in stone i.e. if there is overwhelming support from the community for your project, we will reconsider our decision.

#### 5. Onboarding

Successful applicants will be onboarded to the program as [shared earlier](#technical-support).

### Are there an application fees?

No.

### How long will it take before I hear back from you?

You should hear back from us within a few days of making a PR.

### When will the Shiden Acceleration Program begin?

After successfully winning the Kusama Parachain Auction.
